1.
  1.) Because I'm from California, I don't typically have to deal with natural disasters - the most we get are the occasional flood warning in the spring and wildfire air quality warning in the summer from the state's emergency alert system. I usually rely on those systems because of the infrequency, but in years past when I've been in a more direct impact I've used online search engines to find paths of impact, timing, etc.
  
  2.) I don't think I've ever used news articles in my preparation for and responses to these types of emergency situations. I think moreso social media sites like tiktok and twitter (now known as X, the everything app) have had a larger impact on me and my ability watch for warning signs and basic preparation. There was probably a point in my childhood when I would listen to NPR on the radio and use their tips and tricks for the rains, but I haven't used traditional news media for emergency preparation.
  
  3.) I've never really had an issue with the definitions for the emergencies I've experienced. If there has been an issue - like for example Hurricane vs Tornado - I've gone to family friends who experience both (family who've lived in Ohio and Florida and experienced both) and looked up meteorologists online (social media) who have educational content explaining the difference (when I first moved to Ohio for my freshman year of college). 
  
  4.) When there has been an issue regarding air quality or possibly river flooding due to rains, I've always searched up online the areas of impact and the timeline that is expected via a search engine. I'm lucky my weather service app as well provides fairly consistent and up to date information regarding natural disasters in my area. If it looks particularly bad, I use my past experience or call my family who are more knowledgeable on disaster prep (my father) if I need tips on what to do this time.
  .
  5.) I have been very easily able to find information on natural disasters in my area - thank G-d for a well funded weather service system. When details have been hazy or I've been paying attention to disasters that don't necessarily affect me, I've used social media and it's been a slog to comb through all the misinformation regarding said disasters.
  
  6.) Things I would love to see in a disaster response app: two maps - one with area of affect being the center (if I'm in that area, I'd very like to know that LOL), and one with spill-off effects / predicted areas of affect after initial onset of the disaster. In California, wildfires can move pretty damn far based off wind conditions and can move counties sometimes. That's very much something I'd love to have information on, that way I can better prepare. Normally I've got to look at several different portions of my weather app or online for different information (area of impact, wind speed and direction, humidity conditions in my area, etc); to have that information centralized in one area would be phenomenal. As well, a collection of basic preparation / response tips by disaster would be cool to have in another section of the app.
-----------------
2.
  Q1) first step would be google, looking up resources for the natural disaster in my area
  Q2) new articles play little in my preparation, updates such as severe weather alert notifications i get on my phone do/would play a larger role in my response
  Q3) When dealing with an emergency my first step would be searching both "snow storm kirtland" and "snow storm ohio" to get both more localized information and generalized which fun-fact we are having some heavy snow rn which is really making the roads awful to drive on
  Q4) oops i switched q3 and q4, for q3: google/safari on my phone would be the #1 place i would first search for definitions and more details on the situation
  Q5) There was a tornado watch a month or so back up here near cleveland. The most helpful thing for finding information is yes google, but also local weather website where they typically have more detailed information regarding potential natural disasters including what and where to look out for them. I don't recally any severe hindrences, but sometimes it could be difficult to find the correct site for my area when bogged with many options because some would be either a subscription thing or different sites would give slightly differing information.
  Q6) front and center I would like to see something like a notification list of current cautions. It would be most ideal if i could save my location to the app and when i open it, i see what current natural disaster warnings and alerts are currently going on which i could click to get more information. that way i don't necessarily need to know what is going on exactly but can quickly get updated on the situation.
